OSDOCS-9480: NetObserv Custom Metrics (#74412)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-flowmetrics-charts.adoc

. Use the *Project:*  dropdown list to select the project of the Network Observability Operator instance. 
. Click *Create FlowMetric*.
. Here are some examples for configuring the `FlowMetric` resource: 

.Chart for tracking ingress bytes received from cluster external sources
[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowMetric
metadata:
  name: flowmetric-cluster-external-ingress-traffic
  namespace: netobserv   <1>
# ...
  charts:
  - dashboardName: Main
    title: External ingress traffic
    unit: Bps
    type: SingleStat
    queries:
    - promQL: "sum(rate($METRIC[2m]))"
      legend: ""
  - dashboardName: Main
    sectionName: External
    title: Top external ingress traffic per workload
    unit: Bps
    type: StackArea
    queries:
    - promQL: "sum(rate($METRIC{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (DstK8S_Namespace, DstK8S_OwnerName)"
      legend: "{{DstK8S_Namespace}} / {{DstK8S_OwnerName}}"
# ...
----
<1> The same namespace, netobserv, is used across all components. You can optionally use a different namespace for the different components. It is important to keep namespace names consistent across all components.

> This example creates two panels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example creates two panels under existing NetObserv / Main dashboard:
```
we should also let users know, optionally they can configure under a new dashboard of their own and those charts would appear there.

Author: Ok I added info to both examples, so there are two separate verification steps that are in each collapsible sample block:

-https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74412/files#diff-4a2491a61cc9a63333a7315ba8f70962cc8e3baf7c29e141719ee3e5cb5e3140R49
-https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74412/files#diff-4a2491a61cc9a63333a7315ba8f70962cc8e3baf7c29e141719ee3e5cb5e3140R104

Author: One question I have about creating a dashboards with a custom name, we don't currently tell users how to do create a dashboard with their own name, as far as I am aware. I feel like we would need to say more about this, like if you're within the netobserv namespace, you can create a dashboard that will be prefixed with *Netobserv / <your_dashboard> and how exactly to do it.

Reviewer 2: yes sounds good, I guess you can simply annotate the `dashboardName` in YAML to tell that using a different name would create a new dashboard

Author: I like that suggestion a lot :) Thanks!

Author: Ok I added annotations to the `dashboardName` in the YAML.

      legend: "{{DstK8S_Namespace}} / {{DstK8S_OwnerName}}"
  - dashboardName: Main
    sectionName: External
    title: "Top external ingress sRTT per workload, p99 (ms)"
    unit: seconds
    type: Line
    queries:
    - promQL: "histogram_quantile(0.99, sum(rate($METRIC_bucket{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (le,DstK8S_Namespace,DstK8S_OwnerName))*1000 > 0"
      legend: "{{DstK8S_Namespace}} / {{DstK8S_OwnerName}}"
# ...
----

This example uses the `histogram_quantile` function, to show p50 and p99.

You might also want to show averages of histograms: this is done by dividing the metric `$METRIC_sum` by the metric `$METRIC_count`, which are automatically generated when you create an histogram. With the preceding example, the Prometheus query to do this would be as follows:

[source,yaml]
----
promQL: "(sum(rate($METRIC_sum{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (DstK8S_Namespace,DstK8S_OwnerName) / sum(rate($METRIC_count{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (DstK8S_Namespace,DstK8S_OwnerName))*1000"
----

For more information about the query language, refer to the link:https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/[Prometheus documentation].
====

.Verification

> . Once the pods refresh, navigate to *Observe* -> *Dashboards*.

Reviewer: add a bullet to say "Search for NetObserv / Main dashboard" , we should add similar bullet as https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74412/files#diff-2a22749e0d0fdc529e24f45d6db04896a098ccb694cd48ed09a31709114bd1f4R35 to say dashboard Names are prefixed with "NetObserv / "

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/metrics-alerts-dashboards.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-custom-charts-flowmetrics_{context}"]
= Configuring custom charts using FlowMetrics API
You can generate charts for dashboards in the {product-title} web console, which you can view as an administrator in the *Dashboard* menu by defining the `charts` section of the `FlowMetric` resource.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

> . Under the *Provided APIs* heading for the *NetObserv Operator*, select *FlowMetrics*.

Reviewer 3: same comment as in previous module

> . Use the *Project:*  dropdown list to select the project of the Network Observability Operator instance. 

Reviewer 3: same comment as in previous module

. Click *Create FlowMetric*.

> . Here are some examples for configuring the `FlowMetric` resource: 

Reviewer 3: same comment as in previous module

.Chart for tracking ingress bytes received from cluster external sources
[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowMetric
metadata:
  name: flowmetric-cluster-external-ingress-traffic
  namespace: netobserv   <1>
# ...
  charts:
  - dashboardName: Main  <2>
    title: External ingress traffic
    unit: Bps
    type: SingleStat
    queries:
    - promQL: "sum(rate($METRIC[2m]))"
      legend: ""
  - dashboardName: Main  <2>
    sectionName: External
    title: Top external ingress traffic per workload
    unit: Bps
    type: StackArea
    queries:
    - promQL: "sum(rate($METRIC{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (DstK8S_Namespace, DstK8S_OwnerName)"
      legend: "{{DstK8S_Namespace}} / {{DstK8S_OwnerName}}"
# ...
----

> <1> The same namespace, `netobserv`, is used across all components. You can optionally use a different namespace for the different components. It is important to keep namespace names consistent across all components.

Reviewer 3: same comment as in previous module

.Verification
. Once the pods refresh, navigate to *Observe* -> *Dashboards*.
. Search for the *NetObserv / Main* dashboard.

> . View two panels under the *NetObserv / Main* dashboard, or optionally a dashboard name that you create:

Reviewer 3: is this a separate step. It can be a part of previous step, IMO e.g. `You can view....`

> * A textual "single stat" showing the global external ingress rate summed across all dimensions

Reviewer 3: is `single stat` a value? If so, needs to be within backticks

[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowMetric
metadata:
  name: flowmetric-cluster-external-ingress-traffic
  namespace: netobserv   <1>
# ...
  charts:
  - dashboardName: Main  <2>
    title: External ingress TCP latency
    unit: seconds
    type: SingleStat
    queries:
    - promQL: "histogram_quantile(0.99, sum(rate($METRIC_bucket[2m])) by (le)) > 0"
      legend: "p99"
  - dashboardName: Main  <2>
    sectionName: External
    title: "Top external ingress sRTT per workload, p50 (ms)"
    unit: seconds
    type: Line
    queries:
    - promQL: "histogram_quantile(0.5, sum(rate($METRIC_bucket{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (le,DstK8S_Namespace,DstK8S_OwnerName))*1000 > 0"
      legend: "{{DstK8S_Namespace}} / {{DstK8S_OwnerName}}"
  - dashboardName: Main  <2>
    sectionName: External
    title: "Top external ingress sRTT per workload, p99 (ms)"
    unit: seconds
    type: Line
    queries:
    - promQL: "histogram_quantile(0.99, sum(rate($METRIC_bucket{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (le,DstK8S_Namespace,DstK8S_OwnerName))*1000 > 0"
      legend: "{{DstK8S_Namespace}} / {{DstK8S_OwnerName}}"
# ...
----

> <1> The same namespace, `netobserv`, is used across all components. You can optionally use a different namespace for the different components. It is important to keep namespace names consistent across all components.

Reviewer 3: same comment as in previous module

> <2> Using a different `dashboardName`  creates a new dashboard that is prefixed with "Netobserv". For example, *Netobserv / <dashboard_name>*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<2> Using a different `dashboardName` creates a new dashboard that is prefixed with `Netobserv`. For example, *Netobserv / <dashboard_name>*.
```

This example uses the `histogram_quantile` function to show `p50` and `p99`.

> You might also want to show averages of histograms. This is done by dividing the metric `$METRIC_sum` by the metric `$METRIC_count`, which are automatically generated when you create a histogram. With the preceding example, the Prometheus query to do this is as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can show averages of histograms by dividing the metric `$METRIC_sum` by the metric `$METRIC_count`, which are automatically generated when you create a histogram. With the preceding example, the Prometheus query to do this is as follows:
```

[source,yaml]
----
promQL: "(sum(rate($METRIC_sum{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (DstK8S_Namespace,DstK8S_OwnerName) / sum(rate($METRIC_count{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (DstK8S_Namespace,DstK8S_OwnerName))*1000"
----

.Verification
. Once the pods refresh, navigate to *Observe* -> *Dashboards*.
. Search for the *NetObserv / Main* dashboard.

> . View the new panel under the *NetObserv / Main* dashboard, or optionally a dashboard name that you create.

Reviewer 3: same comment as above verification section

You can generate charts for dashboards in the {product-title} web console, which you can view as an administrator in the *Dashboard* menu by defining the `charts` section of the `FlowMetric` resource.

Here is an example for the `flowmetric-cluster-external-ingress-traffic` resource described above:

.Generate a metric that tracks ingress bytes received from cluster external sources
[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowMetric
metadata:
  name: flowmetric-cluster-external-ingress-traffic
# ...
  charts:
  - dashboardName: Main
    title: External ingress traffic
    unit: Bps
    type: SingleStat
    queries:
    - promQL: "sum(rate($METRIC[2m]))"
      legend: ""
  - dashboardName: Main
    sectionName: External
    title: Top external ingress traffic per workload
    unit: Bps
    type: StackArea
    queries:
    - promQL: "sum(rate($METRIC{DstK8S_Namespace!=\"\"}[2m])) by (DstK8S_Namespace, DstK8S_OwnerName)"
      legend: "{{DstK8S_Namespace}} / {{DstK8S_OwnerName}}"
# ...
----
+
This creates two panels:
* A textual "single stat" showing the global external ingress rate summed across all dimensions

> * A timeseries graph showing the same metric per destination workload

Reviewer 2: This isn't rendered correctly, cf screenshot:

![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/2153442/c5ccc88b-0297-4a3f-a369-1156ad6aa92d)
